I was born in York, England in 1632. My father was German and my mother was English. My father’s family name was Kreutznaer, but after he came to England people started calling him Crusoe. My mother’s family was called Robinson. This is how I came to be called Robinson Crusoe.

I had two elder brothers. The oldest one joined the army and was killed in battle. The middle one disappeared and we never heard what became of him. I was well-educated and my father wanted me to study law, but I wanted to go to sea. Nothing would convince me to stay at home and become a lawyer.

I was 18 years old when one day my father called me to his room. He was old and suffered from a disease which kept him in bed. My father asked me why I wanted to go to sea when I can stay at home, study and prosper in my own country. He told me that travelling abroad by sea was dangerous. He warned me that I would lose peace and comfort of my home if I go to sea. My father also told me that if I go abroad my fate might be similar to that of my eldest brother. When saying this he started crying and he could not continue.

My father’s advice and warnings made me think and I started to forget my desire to travel by sea. Yet, my decision to stay home did not last long. One week passed and I made my mind up to talk to my mother and tell her I am determined to travel. I told her how curious I was. I told her how I wanted to see the world, then asked her to speak to my father. I asked her to convince him to let me go on one sea journey. I promised that if I did not like it, I would go back home and start working very hard. My mother did not agree. She also did not want me to go abroad.

I stayed home one more year. The whole time I was thinking whether to follow my parents’ wish or my own desire. One day I was in the town of Hull. A friend of mine was going with his father’s ship to London and he invited me to go with him for free. I wasn’t prepared and my parents did not know, but I boarded that ship on that September day.

This is how my unhappy adventures began.
The moment the ship left the river and went into the sea my troubles started. There was strong wind and the sea was rough. A storm was approaching. I was very frightened and felt seasick. I began to regret my decision to leave home. I thought every wave was going to sink the ship. I promised myself I would go home and apologize to my parents as soon as I stepped on dry land again.

The storm was over by the morning. I was still seasick during the day and I was thinking about the terrible storm. The evening, however, was very beautiful and the sea was very peaceful. I thought that was the most wonderful sight I had ever seen.

That night I slept well and I was no longer seasick. One of the sailors came to me and we started talking. He asked me what I thought of the light wind last night. I told him I was very scared of the storm and he offered me a drink called punch. I got drunk and forgot how scared I had been. I also forgot my decision to go back home. Instead I was dreaming about more travels by sea.

The next few days the wind was blowing against us and we couldn’t move much. A week later the wind increased and we decided to set off. The very next day there was a great storm. I was terrified and this time I could see that the other sailors were also very scared. The captain was walking in and out of his cabin. He was quietly saying prayers.

I was so scared I couldn’t do anything else but lie in my bed and hope we would survive. When I heard the captain talk to himself I got up and looked out the window of my cabin. The waves were as tall as mountains. I saw other ships which looked like toys. The waves were moving them around violently. Our sailors cried out that a ship had sunk in front of us. I was terribly afraid and regretted that I hadn’t gone home after the first light storm.

The storm was getting worse and now all the sailors were praying we would survive. Suddenly someone shouted that there was a leak in the ship and water was coming in. Everyone was called down to pump the water out. I was paralyzed with fear, and I couldn’t get out of my bed. Then the men came and told me to go down and help, so I went. I was pumping out the water when the captain ordered someone to shoot a fire gun. It was a signal that we were in danger. I thought we were sinking, because the ship was broken. I thought we were all going to drown. I fainted with fear. It was only hours later that I regained my senses.
High on the rock I was safe and extremely happy that I had survived, but I was also thinking about my friends. I never saw any of them again. All I found on the beach afterward were three hats, a cap, and two shoes that didn’t match.

The storm was still raging, but the waves weren’t as big anymore, and I could see the ship. It was so far from the land that I couldn’t stop wondering how on earth I had managed to reach the rocky shore alive.

I looked around and noticed I had almost nothing. I was wet and had no other clothes. I had nothing to eat or drink and nothing with which to defend myself if an animal attacked me. All I found in my pockets was a knife, a pipe, and a little box with tobacco. I was terrified. How could I possibly survive with only these three things? What if some beast found me during the approaching night?

I moved from the rock to the land behind it, and from there I went to the beach. Before sunset I explored the shore while looking for some fresh water. I found some and after drinking, I chewed some tobacco instead of eating dinner. Then I made myself a club from a short stick because I was afraid I might be attacked by an animal.

I decided to spend the night up in a tree. I picked a thick tree with thorns and climbed up to the top where I was going to sit up all night, but I was so tired that I fell asleep and woke up only the next morning. The sea was calm now. I was surprised to discover that the waves have moved the ship, and it was now very close to the rock where I had almost died last night. Since the ship was unmoving, I started considering how to reach it so I could retrieve all the useful objects that were still there.

When I came down from the tree, I saw that the small boat was on the beach but quite far from me. I started walking toward it but there was deep water between me and that side of the beach, so I could not reach the boat. I decided not to waste any more time but to try to get to the ship first.